Well, if you want to really get good at
jacking and you want some extra practice,
I've got a great exercise for you. It's
called making an optic cup. And what
we'll do is we'll make a regular bubble
and then put three or four or even more
sets of jack lines in, folding them in on
each other. This is a great way to master
control with the jacks, and it also makes
kind of a neat cup. Okay,
so to make an optic cup, you start with a
cylinder that doesn't have any jack lines
in it. So we've got a nice cylindrical
bubble here. And what I want to do is
choose a spot about two-thirds of the way
down where I'm going to put my first
ring. And what I like to do when I make
these is draw my guidelines for my rings
at the beginning. That way I know exactly
where they're going to go at the end. So
we'll put three rings in this one.
And eventually I'm going to jack it here
at the neck to break it off. So I'll draw
a little guideline for that too.
Okay, so let's get that first fold in
here. I go to my guideline,
and I jack down maybe
about half to three-quarters of an inch.
And once that jack line is nice and
sharp, I collapse the glass
in on itself. And when the glass touches,
it's going to make a nice fold.
The next step is to heat it
and stretch it out a little bit.
Okay, time for that second fold.
Now I'm stretching it out a little bit as
I jack it. It gives me a little bit of
extra separation. And it's
important not to push too hard or you'll
collapse the folds on top of each
other, and you want them separate,
so there's #2.
And fold three.
Okay, for the final step of the optic
cup, I'm going to inflate it with the
help of my partner. Okay, please blow.
And while she's doing that, I can set in
the final jack line. This is where I'm
actually going to break the piece off.
Stop, thank you.
Blow, please.
Stop. Thank you.
So, a three-ring optic cup. All we have to
do is punty that bottom, open that top,
and it's done.